---
title: 'Zeo the philosopher'
media_order: photo-1525226637460-98683232b412.jpeg
metadata:
    Keywords: 'Stoicism, zeo, zeo the philosopher, stoic philosophy, philosophy, lifestyle'
    Description: 'Zeno of Cyprus is a philosopher who ends up in Greece after having an accident and losing everything he had. He, later on, originated the philosophy known as stoicism. This philosophy which is about tolerance, self control, and virtue, have inspired generations of thinkers and leaders. Some people make a mistake and think self control and the ability to hide our emotions are the same things. These are actually two different things. This philosophy talks about how to have self control in such a way that a situation that makes you mad, doesn''t even affect you anymore. Learning how to self control you can deal with your challenges in a positive way. '
taxonomy:
    category:
        - Stoicism
    tag:
        - Stoicism
    month:
        - October
continue_link: true
---

Zeno of Cyprus is a philosopher who ends up in Greece after having an accident and losing everything he had. He, later on, originated the philosophy known as stoicism.  This philosophy which is about tolerance, self control, and virtue, have inspired generations of thinkers and leaders.  Some people make a mistake and think self control and the ability to hide our emotions are the same things. These are actually two different things. This philosophy talks about how to have self control in such a way that a situation that makes you mad, doesn't even affect you anymore. Learning how to self control you can deal with your challenges in a positive way. 

While this shows an important aspect of the philosophy you should remember that the original study is more than just about attitude. The Stoics believed that everything around us happens according to cause and effect web which affects everything around us. The philosophy suggests that although we can not have any control over the things that happen around us, we can control the way we react to them. This means instead of imagining an ideal society, stoics try to deal with the world as it is. They self improve to achieve peace of mind in every situation. For example, they practice the ability to stay calm and logical in any situation. Practicing self- restraint which is the practice of moderation in all aspects of life. Learning how to be fair with others and ourselves when something bad is done is another important practice of stoicism. One of the mechanism that most of us have is that we tend to change the meaning of events around us. We create stories and let them eat us from inside. If we just stop and see things as they are, we have a better chance of dealing with that event with a calm attitude.

Although this philosophy talks about self improvement, it is not a self centered philosophy. Improving oneself in a world of cause and effect is an improvement in all society. The idea behind the philosophy is that only people who have worked toward self improvement and have a positive attitude toward life can bring positive changes in others. It is impossible for anyone to make positive changes in others when they have no self control on themselves. You can not teach someone something you do not know. Practicing, and working hard every day to self improve is very important for everybody.

Stoicism was an active school of philosophy for several centuries in Greece and Rome. as an institution, it has faded away but the philosophy and its influence  continues to this day. It is said that we do not suffer from the event that happens in our lives, we suffer because of the way we see and face them. This mean that no matter what is happening in our lives, our reaction or judgments toward that event is what we are actually suffering from. Today it is proven that our brain has the ability to learn different patterns. From the very first day that we are born our brain starts to pick up patterns and ways to deal with the world and daily challenges. Because our brain has such abilities we are able to change the patterns as well. Stoic philosophers suggest different practices or self control and virtue.  The good news is no matter what kind of a life you have had so far, practicing new patterns can change the way you react toward different events. For example, if you have a short temper and you instantly start shouting when you get angry, by doing different practices of self control you can train your brain in a way to stay calm in every situation. Monks and yogis have the ability to not just stay calm in every situation but to carry an imaginary bubble around them so no event can affect them in a negative way. They also face many different challenges in their life but they have learned how they chose to deal with their challenges with integrity and not let outside situations affect their peace of mind. 

This philosophy is resonating strongly with modern psychology. For example, rational emotive behavior therapy focuses on changing self defeating attitudes people form about their life circumstances. We are not aware of how destructive our thoughts can be. Once we start the journey to get to know our thinking patterns and the way we react to them we can recognize the negative attitude we have. By practicing, learning new ways to self improve we can create positive changes in ourselves after a certain period of time.

We have those times in our lives when we think that things cannot be worse than this, if we just try a little bit harder we can see that, our suffering is only what our mind is creating. Creating an imaginary gap between you and your mind, automatically helps you see things as they are. There are no bad events or good events. There are no positive or negative events. There is only one thing and that is we give meanings to what happens around us and if you do not like the meaning you can change it. We can harness our will power and fill our lives with meaning and positivity, even in the darkest days.


Learning about Zeo’s philosophy helps you to better understand your true nature. By learning who we really are and accepting ourselves we can change our thought and therefore our life in a positive way that brings everybody joy.